"Customer success is an important part of our company’s philosophy. Provide an example from your experience in customer management when you helped one of your customers be successful and what you personally had to do to make it happen."




Notifying customers about their overdue invoices and collectiong them can be imaginably difficult.  Especially when these invoices are valued for thousands of dollars and some customers are confident that they have already paid.  When I was assigned by Capgemini, a staffing firm, to work as a portfolio analyst for Coca-Cola Enterprises, I helped them collect thousands of outstanding dollars that had not been collected in years. For this I had to work with several customers of different types, communicate across several departments within Coca-Cola, and synchronize many processes like the conductor of an orchestra. 

I started with about 20 different stores all around the United States. Some were big chain stores, like supermarkets and restaurants and others were "mom-and-pop stores", small and family owned. The first could only be contacted by email to very specific representatives and the latter could be contacted by phone where I would talk directly to the owner.

But before I made any contact, I had to thoroughly research the customer's payment history and accounts to find out why there were so many outstanding invoices. On various ocassions the customers had actually paid on time, but we had failed to apply the money correctly. It was a mess, but I quickly learned to use our suite of software applications that generated invoices and reports, and after a few weeks of hard work I managed to clean a great deal of my portfolio. The rest was up to me being able to talk with the customers to explain the situation. Some customers quickly sent the payments, but with others I worked to get payment plans so that they could gradually resolve their balances. Helping these customers resolve their overdue accounts was all about being sympathetic but not too soft, and letting them know you are also a human, not just a machine behind a screen. 
 
All this work was part of the first phase in which Coca-Cola would determine if they would stay with our company as a customer, and I am happy to say that through the efforts of the whole team, they did. 